What social problem is being addressed?
Academia is entrenched in white, hetero, cisnormativity. Critical scholars with goals of resisting such norms are often met with a number of barriers that challenge the validity and value of their work. Given the exclusionary nature of the academic community, we are motivated to document the counter spaces that have served to uplift scholars of color in their work and wellbeing. For this project, we want to specifically focus on the Research Apprenticeship Courses (RAC) that was started by Dr. Daniel Solorzano at UCLA. More information about the history of RAC can be found here: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/09518398.2022.2042613

Who is being empowered by your mapplication?
The goal of this project is to empower and uplift the work of critical scholars (most often scholars of color) within higher education. Our goal with this project is to document the lineage of Critical Race Theory (CRT) in education. In creating a visualization of CRT scholars in education, it is our hope that this map will be useful for individuals and groups to collaborate, support, and build community amongst each other. Furthermore, we hope that having a tangible representation of CRT scholars in education will inspire aspiring and early career scholars to continue the tradition and legacy of CRT in their work.

What technical and ethical problems could there be in developing this tool?
We hope to use the map to demonstrate the geographic locations of these community members. Given the current attacks on CRT, we are concerned about privacy issues and how the information will be utilized. We would need to be careful with gaining consent from the individuals represented on this map that their information can be posted publicly. Moreover, we would need to consult with CCRSE about appropriate avenues to disseminate and publish this project. More information about CCRSE: http://www.ccrse.gseis.ucla.edu/ 
Extra Credit
Reach out to a non-profit organization that your crowd-sourced mapping application could help support and mention them in the write-up.



The Center for Critical Race Studies in Education (CCRSE) at UCLA along with the staff, visiting scholars, and invited authors are dedicated to producing and publishing research with the goal of exploring questions related to theoretical frameworks, methodology, methods, conceptual tools, and practice associated with Critical Race Studies. The inaugural research briefs series was released in June 2016 with five issues.  They explored cultural intuition, racial battle fatigue, racial microaggressions, critical race history methodology, and community cultural wealth.

Established in 2015, the Center for Critical Race Studies in Education at UCLA engages scholars and community members in interdisciplinary research that expands our understanding of crucial educational and social inequality issues. Centering the role of race, racism, and their intersectionality with other forms of discrimination such as sexism, classism, homophobia, and ableism, is key to the CCRSE mission. Producing and supporting research that explicitly highlights historical and contemporary issues impacting Communities of Color is an important step toward achieving educational equity.

Article: 
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/09518398.2022.2042613
This article is the story of how I came to develop a course at UCLA called the Research Apprenticeship Course (RAC), how the RAC helped me to examine Critical Race Theory (CRT) in the law, and how we could bring those CRT tools to education, the social sciences, and race and ethnic studies. A second and no less important goal of the RAC was to provide an academic and social space where primarily Students of Color could critically and collaboratively engage in and support discussions on race, racism, sexism, and classism in research, pedagogy, policy, and activism.

I begin by telling the story of my graduate and postgraduate years at the Claremont Graduate School, the Tomas Rivera Center for Policy Studies, the Educational Testing Service, and the Ford Foundation Fellows community. I show how these academic and social spaces nurtured my intellectual growth while putting me in a community with scholars and activists committed to social and racial justice and critical scholarship. I continue with the journey with Critical Race Theory and how that led my colleagues and I to discover, utilize, and create CRT tools in our research, writing, and teaching. I end the article by reflecting on the journey and where I see the challenges and opportunities facing the future of the RAC and other Critical Race Counterspaces (see Solorzano et al., 2000).
